In this lecture we explore the use of the JavaScript executable, and this is part one of two parts
of lectures.
So what is the JavaScript executable?
JavaScript executable is an interface that helps to execute JavaScript through sitting in web driver.
It allows you to interact directly with the HTML dom of the web page by executing JavaScript expressions.
It provides a way to automate a user interaction, even when the page is not fully loaded or elements
are placed in a way that the direct interaction is blocked.
So when could we use it?
Sometimes web controls don't react well when using selenium commands.
If we come across a situation where our Selenium tests are not fully functional.
What I don't function as would expect, and that could be for various reasons.
Then we will also have the option to interact with the web page using JavaScript.
For example, say we have a button on a web page and for some reason we can't click on it.
But the standard Selenium methods.
We could instead click the button.
By executing JavaScript via selenium.
Using the JavaScript executes our interface.
So let's keep it simple.
In the following video, I'm going to demonstrate how I send a JavaScript command using my Selenium
Java code.
The objective of my code is to send JavaScript to the browser using selenium to scroll down the page
by 200 pixels.
I will be visiting a web page, an automation test in the code at UK.
Wait for the page to load, execute JavaScript to scroll down on a web page without interacting with
any elements.
By the way, we go through disco step by step in the next lecture.
So let's see an action.
So as I have mentioned, your objective of this particular lecture is just to provide you with a demonstration
of JavaScript code being sent to the browser through signing in web driver.
So to walk you through the test, I'm simply going to go to the automation testing website and I'm going
to send JavaScript to the browser to simply scroll down 200 pixels.
So I've written this code already for you.
But I will add this code to the lecture as an attachment for you to download if you acquire.
So do not take note of the details of this code for now.
I would explain exactly how it works in the next lecture, but do notice that I'm using JavaScript at
this point.
And if I copy this and go to the automation testing website and open up the developer developer panel
and click on the console tab if I pass that command here.
Watch what happens when I press enter.
You can see that by using JavaScript, I was able to scroll down on the page.
So I'm now going to run this code.
And let's see what happens.
And you can see that the window also scroll down.
But this time I was using Java code and send in a JavaScript command using Selenium web driver to the
browser.
So I hope that was a useful demonstration for now.
And let's go through the code in detail in the next lecture.